>> Welcome.
I am Shawn Geddis.
Security consulting engineer in
the Apple Enterprise division.
Today we really want to take a serious
look at some of the additional ways
that you can enhance the security or
the fortification of your systems.
And we will get through the presentation here.
I just want to give you kind of some advanced information.
In addition to my sharing some information,
I also have a colleague from NSA joining us.
And we're going to be sharing some of our joint guidance.
Some of the direction we want to give you as users,
administrators, developers, and how to, again,
fortify the security within OS X. So
let's kind of walk you though this.
If I can use the clicker.
We want to introduce you to some concepts
and then back that up with some guidance.
And the first is system hardening.
A lot of times they'll -- people will mention
system hardening, and they're not sure what that is.
Yeah. We're hearing something back there.
We'll ignore them.
We're going to review some of the security
services and the tools that are in Mac OS X today.
Both as users, Admins, and of course development.
And then we want to let you know both for now and ongoing,
the resources that you have available
to you for additional guidance.
Because securing systems is not an easy thing.
And it's not a win time thing.
It's a constant battle, and it gets harder and harder
as you get more and more people attacking things.
So what we hope you will learn out of this really is to
better understand what that hardening in your environment.
Because hardening your system if
you look to the person to the left
and the right, it means something totally different.
Because the system is in a totally different environment.
If you're in a hot spot, if you're in
kind of your own kind of personal network,
if you're in a corporate enterprise environment, if
you're kind of exposed out in a travelling environment.
So again, that's where you're hitting the different
hardening techniques for different environments.
I struggle to figure out what would best -- what I would
have best to share with you on how to do this hardening.
Because it gets kind of tedious, it
gets kind of mundane after a while.
And so I really kind of hit the top ten items.
So really target something that all of you
in this room should be able to do today.
Right? Something that even people new to OS
X should be able to do some of the tasks,
some of the approaches that I am going suggest here.
And you'll walk away with a better
protection of your system.
Mentioned about the guidance vote from Apple and from NSA.
And then I mentioned also about some physical
guidance documents and some other groups externally
that you have as kind of your security tool chest.
So first of all, what does system hardening really mean.
Well, the purpose of it is really to in
one way reduce and hopefully eliminate any
of that risk that's possible in the environment.
Like I mentioned.
In the environment that the system is running in.
If I have a stand-alone computer that in my
house, it's not attached to anything, no network,
that's in a different attack environment than if
I'm sitting at a Starbucks going through T Mobile.
So let's kind of walk through the ten
-- as I say the top ten steps that all
of you in this room should be able to do today
They're kind of categorized.
And when it comes to security, you have to start protecting.
You have to start with a good protection from the get-go.
So what is it that all of you in this room
should be able to do right out of the gate?
Well, first of all I am surprised on a daily basis how
many people will, whether they're in an organization,
very large company, maybe even kind of a small business.
And they'll kind of share systems.
They'll kind of -- hand me downs.
You know, you get a brand new system
and you hand that next system off.
That -- now you should be taking
that system back and starting fresh.
Wiping information off, starting from a fresh install.
If you don't, you're now starting
with any kind of configuration,
any kind of potential embedded attack
that may have been there before.
So start clean.
Start from a known state.
Again, these are very simple, should be common
thinking in your day-to-day approach in the computers.
Never assume that the system's okay.
If you got somebody, or it got shipped
to you, or it's in your organization.
So on each one of these steps I kind of want to
also hit on some of the tools that we have as Apple.
There's always some third party open source and others.
I want to specifically point out those that Apple
provides that you can use today to address these.
So to really start out, obviously some
of the typical ones is the installation.
Disk utility.
Many of you that may not be familiar with the fact that
in Disk Utility you can do the secure erase of your drive.
Kind of a nice user interface, so you
don't have to know the command line.
You do secure erase of that disc plus
what's known as securely erasing free space.
Free space is where you may have let's say 100 files, and
there's a whole bunch of kind of space that's not allocated,
or not supposedly allocated in that drive.
It may still have some data written there from before.
It may have had some temp files that have been deleted.
You can use disc utility to securely
erase all that area on any given volume.
It's always a good idea to do that on
-- particularly some external drives.
If you're travelling between individuals, your sharing them.
ASR is for the restoring.
Apple software restore.
So if you're restoring imaging.
A lot of you folks are using other
tools built on top of ASR.
And then net install.
Again, most of those are geared
towards restoring a corporate image.
Many of you are doing a lot of imaging.
I think you've been to some of the sessions on that.
Very simple.
So we're starting out clean.
So let's kind of keep going forward with this.
What are some ways that you can secure the host?
So we're going to work our way on up.
We're talking about the host; we're
talking just that physical box.
What are some of the ways that you can
increase the protection of this box.
Whether it be your lap top or your desktop.
One is the discussion that many folks have
had of leveraging the lock down of firm ware.
Okay, had we had the PowerPC systems,
it was referred to as the open firm ware.
When we had the Intel based, and you've got EFI.
It really is the boot -- the starting process of the
hardware, and you're actually booting your system with OS X,
with your machines, whether you're
back to PowerPC or on the Intel.
That's where your whole boot process starts.
And you can lock things down with
tools that we have within the OS.
Now if you're doing the firm wear
lock down, it's related to a password.
And many people new to this aren't familiar
with the fact that the password related
in firm wear has absolutely nothing
to do with a root account.
It's not the root account, it's not your Admin account.
This is really maintained within that firm wear.
Another key thing that I've seen in many environments
is probably many of you have external FireWire drives.
Maybe even with you.
Right? And they're in a housing.
And many of you might have even opened that up
and taken the drive out and swapped the drives.
When you're doing -- if you look at start up disc and
you're selecting that image, and when you go to lock it
down with the firmer utilities,
you're really locking it down to
that unique identifier -- unique identifier for that drive.
But note that with FireWire drives, really, the
unique identifier is the bridge chip; not the drive.
So if you locked it down to that external FireWire
drive, you open that up and you swap drives out,
the system would still boot from that carrier.
You wouldn't be locking the physical drive out.
Most of you should be aware of these.
The open firm ware password utility
was on the PowerPC side.
Firm wear password utility is on the Intel machines.
And those -- on your install DVDs, again,
that's where you'll be getting those as well.
And then those of you that are not faint of heart
here, we're getting down to the command line.
Getting down at firm wear.
On the PowerPC systems you could actually drop
directly into firm wear and set up the security command
and enter that password and lock it down that way.
Okay. So locking the host down initially.
Hopefully, again, everyone in this room should
be able to do this as you walk out of this room.
Second of all; very simple things.
I am surprised at how many systems when you go
to a public environment are broadcasting the fact
that they have Bluetooth, broadcasting their
own wireless, they've created their own ad hoc.
These are attack vectors.
These are now areas where you broadcast your existence.
You're letting other systems now that you're available,
and you potentially have listening processes,
you potentially have a point of attack.
Simple things much turning them off.
In some cases some environments go further and
physically disable components, or remove them.
The key particularly with related to some Bluetooth
pieces is making sure that you don't retain
that discoverability beyond your set up time.
The standard tools -- many of you guys are going to use
on this -- are local management, System Preferences,
turning things on and on from the GUI
line, from the GUI space.
Work group manager, if you're doing centralized management
you can lock out those devices, lock out the media.
For instance, you don't want to
the CDs, DVDs and some other cases.
And then the Terminal.
Many of you guys are doing scripting, you're doing desktop
and pushing out some scrips that modify the work stations.
Again, these are tools and services
that I am highlighting are from Apple.
There are so many other as well from third
parties being court-martial and open source.
This is one that's near and dear to
my heart, many of you that know me.
Passwords -- we should be moving off of passwords.
Moving off of the age old attempt at entering
something that we know -- that's our attack.
Moving to something that's a secure
and reliability form of authentication,
but still retains some simplicity in the user's experience.
So doing the use of two-factor authentication
like smart cards, or one-time password use.
But the first two there, I always thought that
these were so common that people should just know.
But first of all, operating as an Admin is a
typical thing that we always tell everybody.
But yet everyone that is an experienced
administrator I think what happens is they all know it.
But they still operate as an Admin.
There's a lot of functions, right?
Everyone in here doesn't act as Admin, right?
Come on! Be honest!
Okay. Won't tell.
The other thing is a lot of folks are
new to the platform, thinking of Unix,
they're starting to enable the root -- the root account.
On OS X you really should never ever
have to enable root on the client.
And so those very two simple things --
we'll get into some auditing later on --
these are some simple steps of protecting.
But with user authentication -- another
point I want to get at in just a minute --
some of the modifications that you can make
to the authorization rights and the rules.
System preference, work group manager, and Terminal.
Again, tools that you can use today whether you're
doing a direct kind of one to one management,
centralized management across your organization.
Or if you're wanting to do a lot of integration with
other scripting or other tools off other systems.
Okay. So there's a couple rights and rules within the net C
authorization that I've had several customers quite alarmed
at situations that they just weren't
aware of the default setting there.
And it's a very simple thing to modify according to
policies that they may have in their organization,
or just to kind of be a little bit more secure themselves.
So a lot of people deal with the screen saver.
You set your system aside or you're leaving
it; you go away to get your Starbucks coffee.
You come back, your screen saver's engaged.
You need to authenticate.
Well, so the right associated with being able
to authenticate there is the system
dot log in dot screen saver.
And the point that I want to point
out here is the rule at the bottom.
The name of the rule that's used for that is
authenticate with a session owner or Admin.
That's a key thing to keep in mind here, look at this.
That's the default configuration.
So let's look at that a little bit closer.
And if we look at the rule, the definition of the
rule now, for authenticate session owner or Admin,
it means that if someone is in the
group Admin, or me as the user,
either one can unlock that screen
saver and get back into that session.
Okay? So if I'm the user, I stepped away, I went to
Starbucks, and my Admin's down a couple of cubes from me.
And Admin is capable on that machine could unlock
that screen and actually gain access to my session.
But this is something, again, that's very
easy to tweak if you are in that kind
of attack environment, or potential attack environment.
We're looking again at the very bottom of this.
This is the owner of Admin associated rule.
So how can we correct this problem in this environment?
Well, let's go back to the original right.
Remember, down at the rule.
We're going to use a different rule for this.
For this now we want to use just
authenticate with session owner.
And I've eliminated the potential of any Admin to
unlock my screen saver and gain access to my session.
So if we look specifically -- come on -- there we go.
If we look at that rule in the name of
that rule is authenticate session owner,
you no longer see the ability of a group.
There's no Admin group now that's
capable of doing that authentication.
This will take you about two seconds,
and now you're change that environment.
There are so many -- there are so many modifications
like this that you can do within the Nets authorization
to match the various requirements maybe
policy, maybe just kind of a desire
in the working environment in your -- at work or at home.
There's a couple other ones here that I like to point
out because people again are sometimes
unaware of how OS X does this enforcement.
Think about installation.
We're going to install some software.
So one of the rights for that is system install Admin user.
Right? So this would be something that the user's
going to go ahead and install, in this case an Admin.
Going to install an application let's
say into the applications folder.
It says that the group that's allowed is the Admin.
And I also want to point you down to the lower part
-- oops -- the lower part that shows the time out.
Okay. Of the time out means that
if I authenticate, I'm an Admin.
And I do this install for the next 300 seconds I can
repetitively do other tasks that require the same right.
Okay? So if I make a slight change, here I might be
in an environment where I don't want just any Admin
that has access to this machine to
do installs in my -- on this box.
I can leverage a different group.
I can create a different install group.
Here I changed it to My Install Group.
And I can also change that time out to zero.
Means that every time it needs to authenticate,
it's going to force me to do that authentication.
It's not going to resolve automatically
for me in those 300 seconds.
Okay. So hopefully you got an idea there.
There are lots of changes that you can make
-- again, specific to your environment.
The way the default configuration covers the masses.
We're trying to help you understand how
you can configure this according to yours.
We're hitting on a couple of points.
Let's go on to how do you maintain some
of this good posture once you've got --
once you've set up your system and made some changes.
Well, hopefully one of the first things that many of
you are doing -- how many people are using File Vault?
Everybody?
Put up your hand.
Protection of data at rest.
How many people have heard of lap tops
stolen in your area in the last month.
Okay? How many of you heard of lap tops stolen
in the government in the last couple of months.
We didn't used to have to worry did that, did we.
I mean, it was -- things got stolen, that kind of stuff.
But what's happening is we're carrying around, you
know, some of us couple of hundred gig drives now.
It used to be -- I can remember when
you had a hundred gig drive and you felt
like you just spent your week's pay to get that drive.
We're carrying tons of data around.
What we're doing now also is we're
carrying tons of sensitive data.
Very sensitive data.
Whether that is financial information,
whether it's personal information,
or whether we're actually carrying somebody else's data.
Somebody else's confidential information.
At least within the government space, a
reference to typically identifiable information,
is PII -- Personally Identifiable Information.
Something that uniquely identifies you.
So if that data's there, you're in the airport.
Let's say you go to SF O here and you put your lap top down
and you turn around, and all of
a sudden your lap top's gone.
Right? Without protection you now have the
potential for that data going anywhere.
Being used in various nefarious ways, I guess.
So the protection that we have in OS X
for this, is File Vault is being one.
File Vault is -- many of you should know,
we've had several sessions on this as well.
Protecting the user's home directory.
And Tiger had 128 bit A S, Leopard's bringing 256 built.
Just stronger protection, stronger data protection.
Making it much harder.
And in some cases hopefully impossible, for
someone to ever be able to recover your data.
We then, of course, have the portable
encrypted containers, or encrypted disc images.
Anybody using those?
There's some cool features related to that, that I think
hopefully either you're aware or we can help you be aware
of some of the added advantages to the approach
Apple took in providing that encrypted storage rather
than physically locking it down to a particular drive or
a single entity without giving you the ability to share.
So we'll hit on a couple of those I believe.
And of course with Leopard, you've got Time Machine.
You're going to have the ability of actually
storing that in an encrypted format as well.
Secure virtual memory.
You should be doing that as well where on that
Unix system you're doing a lot of swapping.
Right? You're running tons of applications.
System's got to swap that data back and forth.
Well, that stuff gets written to a drive
just like you storing your physical data.
You don't want to expose any of
that information physically on this.
Anything that can be recovered at a later time.
Some folks truly believe that when
they erase those files they're gone.
Well, probably every single one of you is in a company
that had a drive restored by a company that has good tools
to do some very low-level interrogation to do that recovery.
Okay. Think of that.
If you're got readily available tools and companies to do
that, that means that they can get access to your data.
Okay. One thing that I didn't quite mention on a lot of
these slides is the fact that when it comes to security,
the methods you use, the tools, the expense you go to to
protect your data really should reflect the importance
of that data or the value, the financial loss, the impact
to your personally or corporately, if that data exposed.
If I have a machine that has some, you know, game scores
and some information that really is typically irrelevant
and just information -- I'm not going to spend a couple
hundred thousand bucks to just protect that data right?
It has to be relevant, it has to be in direct correlation to
the value of that information if it got potentially exposed.
So again, the same kind of tools.
The new stuff within Leopard being the fact that
you can force File Vault as well on those accounts.
Those of you that are familiar with H D
I, the Terminal, or managing disc images.
Hopefully you're also aware that in Leopard, added
a huge feature in giving you the ability of using
that two factor authentication smart
cards with the unlock of that File Vault.
Encrypted home directory.
So you would have one of those smart cards.
Whether they're in this form factor
or kind of a USB download.
Again, we've got a lot of these tools
built in locally or on the server side
to give you the ability of managing
the protection of your data.
Encryption.
So a couple points that I wanted to
bring out related to disc images.
Hopefully this is review for most
of you, maybe good news for others.
That disc utility is where your performance
action -- here's one of the newer screen shots.
You see that the encryption there is
bringing the new level of 256 bit.
But with the approach of encrypted images, you
can put that encrypted container on any media.
Okay? There's been a lot of folks that ask, well, I found
this thumb drive, but there's a driver for it to encrypt it
on windows, and I don't have a driver
to encrypt it on OS X. Why not?
Right? They're looking for third
party software to provide that.
The nice thing about the encrypted disc images here is
you can create a container and store it on any media.
Whether it be that thumb drive, whether
it be a CD DVD or a network volume.
You could fill that thumb drive with one
big image and store everything inside.
Take it with you, and now you have
protection if ever that thumb drive is lost.
You physically lose the data, or
hopefully you've got copies.
You backed up.
Maybe use Time Machine.
You can store this data anywhere.
So what do we do -- what are some of the
added advantages of this approach as well?
Well, lots of you create multiple partitions.
You probably have at least two or
three partitions on your drives.
Well, remember that with the disc images, that
image should be viewed as that hard drive.
Anything you can do with your hard drive
you should be able to do with the image.
Partition it.
You can have multiple partitions,
different data, different disc formatting.
But the whole container is all encrypted.
There's a lot of folks who are doing this for partitions
-- for instance, years ago there were folks that did this
for some Unix apps that required both the data
and the application to be on a U F S partition.
They didn't have to physically partition their hard drive.
But they could do it with disc image.
Others are using virtualization
software, like parallels and others,
and storing that container on one of those images as well.
But there's -- oops.
I have I missed a slide.
Let me go back.
Use this as a guidance for you.
But explain one more -- one more approach here.
With disc images, the physical file, again like I
mentioned, can be stored on any kind of accessible media.
So let's use the scenario of storing
that file on a file server.
Corporate file server, Internet accessible server.
You name it.
And I am on a -- I am at home, I could be at a hot spot.
I could be anywhere.
And I need to gain access to some of that data.
What I've now done is given myself the ability
to access that data across the Internet,
and I've mounted that image on my desktop, just as a volume.
All the data that's traversing from that file server
to my desktop is now again either 128 bit in Tiger,
or all the way up to 256 built in Leopard.
I'm getting blocks of encrypted data that
that file server to my local work station.
CPU -- local lap top, desk top, you neighboring it.
Without any overhead.
Without any additional infrastructure, I've now
protected my data physically at rest, and in transit.
Without any complexity, any more complexity to myself.
All the runtime environments have access to that.
So if I'm running job apps, if I am running a
local OS X app, if I am running a virtualization,
I can have access to that same data when
it's available and mounted on my desktop.
So there's a lot of value add in using
encrypted images for accessing data remotely.
So some of the high visibility attacks and compromises
and thefts of lap tops that have been around, even lately.
Some of the physical ones being
like the V A in the government.
It was all because the lap top had
the data and they took it with them.
And the lap top got stolen.
But in that work scenario, or that usage scenario.
If that individual would have gone home and even V-PINed in,
or gained access in, they could have mounted that data just
like I just mentioned, had full
access to it, unfettered locally.
The data would have been encrypted, passed
back and forth from the file server locally.
And yet if someone stole their
lap top, the data isn't local.
Right? That data was back on that file server.
So again, there's some significant valued there.
So let me move on again here.
The next is how do you secure the
services that you have on your box?
Probably the first thing that all of us say -- this
is one that Kim and I start out with a lot of folks --
is if you aren't using the service, disable it.
Or in many cases just physically remove it.
Don't leave any additional -- we always
refer to it as kind of an attack factor.
Don't leave something there that
potentially exposes you to further attack.
Don't leave something on.
Something listening.
A service file sharing, Web sharing -- something.
If you're not using it.
The easiest thing you can do is disable it.
That's exactly what Apple does when we ship
OS X. All those services are turned off.
That's the best protection.
Always use the as I would say the security enhanced
version of a lot of the command line tools.
Many of you should be standard using secure shell.
You're doing sessions between hosts.
Some folks are still using kind
of the old tell net approach.
The difference is you're exposing
data, you're exposing information.
This is standard, easy approach to solving problems.
We also have all the service Apples.
Right? In Tiger as well, and that further
is enhanced in management in Leopard.
But this gives the ability of that fine
grain control over who gains access.
So this is just typical permissions.
That's all it comes down to.
Same tools, System Preferences, Server Admin for the
management of those services, and then command line.
We could go through and step you through
how to lock down some of these services.
But what we'll show you here towards the end is
we've painfully gone through a lot of this work
and tried to provide service by service instructions
to how to further enhance this in the security guides
that we provide out to all of you
that are publicly available.
We'll talk about that in a bit.
So if you've enabled some services, the best
thing for you to do is enable the firewall.
Okay? The firewall is one level of protection.
It's another layer.
And when it comes to security, the best
thing for you to do is layer things.
Right? You don't just -- you don't
want just one level of protection.
If you to, as soon as you break
through that, you're exposed.
You want layers of protection.
Firewall's one of them.
So if you enable that for any services,
you should enable a firewall.
Some of you might remember -- some of
you might be using it right now on Tiger,
when you enable the firewall you
actually have the little stealth mode.
Everyone remember that little option for stealth mode?
Hopefully you're aware of what that does.
And that is that if someone's -- let's take for example
Sarah, you're out in that hot spot and stay you're
on the a Starbucks, I kind of like
Starbucks, so that's where I'd go.
And I have services running on my machine.
If someone's kind of doing probing and scanning all
the machines in that area they would start finding
out what services are running, what potential attack
vectors they could use for those various sources.
Well, in the stealth mode, it's just not going to respond
to those probing tests, or the scanning for various tools.
It would not acknowledge the fact that
that service really was running there.
And then in Leopard, there's a brand new
method of enabling the protection when it comes
to services application acre session within Leopard.
Kind of limiting the Internet connection,
the incoming connections
and out going connections in Leopard in the firewall.
Okay. System preference, severer Admin, and Terminal.
Again, I keep bringing several of these up so you're
aware of what tools you have available from Apple
to enable and manage a lot of these services.
Okay. So you've got all the set up.
You started out secure.
You kind of fortified a little bit, your hardware.
You started out fresh.
And then a week from now somebody identified a problem.
The first thing you did is well,
you said well, there's an attack.
I am not going to worry about that.
Security is not going to hit me.
Well, you have to vigilant all the time.
Regardless of whether it's an operating system or an
application, or maybe just a small tool that maybe you used.
You need to be constantly vigilant in
protection, and getting patches to those services.
So first of all, if Apple's gives you that
there's a notification that there's a patch
out for something that's been identified, heed that warning.
Right? Corresponding Apple security patch.
We provide those to you.
Use them. The biggest problem that folks
have on various platforms is the simple fact
that people aren't up dating their systems.
There's an available patch.
People just don't do it.
These are simple things that people
can do to protect themselves better.
Maintain vigilance is what I mentioned.
And other things, particularly since most of you are
getting more and more into pulling in open source projects
that aren't already shipped in OS X. When you're
getting to additional open source projects,
be very vigilant in what updates they may have.
Because remember, we test and we provide those updates
for the open source projects that they ship on the OS.
But we're not providing it for that third --
third party or that additional open source program
that maybe you pulled from somewhere else.
So that's an area that you need to be especially vigilant.
Remote desktop is an additional one here.
And that is the ability for you to go out
and push and maintain those remote systems.
Remote desktop is an awesome tool to give you that
additional capabilities and -- with the -- able --
with the ability to do Unix commands within remote
desktop you literally can do anything that you need
to do on each one of those clients or hosts.
So the other thing related to software
update is that many folks may
or may not may have their own software
update server internal.
You may be running Mac OS X server with
a software severer inside your agency.
But in many cases you don't want the
end users to arbitrary get an update,
maybe even from us, without being able to test it yourself.
You may have additional applications.
You may have additional special configuration.
This is -- this is less so on the security
side, but more so on the stability.
And yet stability can lead to problems on a security side.
So it may just be the fact that a new update conflicts
with something that you've already got on there.
So one of the things that many folks do
is physically redirect that client --
you can do this manually, or obviously
through of the tools here.
Is redirect it to another server.
The nice thing about the client is you can redirect
this to a server that that client may never get to.
Right? But it's going to silently fail under the hood.
That client, that CPU, that lap
top, whatever the people have.
They're never going to be going out and getting an update.
So you can have better control of that in making sure
that only you the Admin and only you the policy enforcer
in your environment are able to apply those
updates that you've validated yourself.
So one of the default settings on that rather than kind
of my server dot company dot com,
would be the software update dot com.
That's where each one of those systems is pointed to
originally in getting software up dates from Apple.
Okay. The next thing is we've done all
this work, we've maintained our updates.
But how do we know if what we have in our system
is what we should still have in our system.
Right? So this is kind of validating the integrity.
And to know what you've had on your system that nothing
is changed, the first thing is you've got a baseline.
You have to know physically what was on there before.
You have to have a method to say, these are the ten
applications I've had, or I had previously on my machine.
And nothing has changed.
Just previous sessions dealing with code signing.
And that was a way of making sure
that that app hadn't been changed.
That's one method.
There are other methods of knowing and
ensuring the integrity of the applications,
the integrity of files, physically, on your machine.
Snap shotting, kind of that concept.
Doing comparisons.
A lot of folks will be doing and using
tools comparing hashes of binaries.
Like, there's all kinds of ways of doing this.
And if you have a questionable system,
if the user has a system that is --
appear to have been potentially compromised.
Appears to have had some altered services -- one of
the easiest thing is to do really a quick comparison
to your baseline system to ensure for yourself that you
have -- you truly have a system that you can rely on.
That you're validating the integrity.
Auditing. Remember that lots of
your applications log information.
You can even enable more log in capabilities
from within applications or services.
That's one method.
That's the application telling the
system what happened or what transpired.
Auditing goes further than that.
Auditing is -- think of auditing as a
view from the outside saying what happened
that may not have been reported by the application.
Right? Kind of the environment.
So OS X has auditing built in ESM.
So if you do kind of the single user
boot you will actually see ESM enabled.
Built into OS X. But this is where I want
to take this opportunity to help many
of you understand how you can leverage that
auditing capabilities built into the OS.
Because probably many of you weren't aware of that.
Right? How many of you are using
the auditing services in OS X?
Probably about ten of you?
Okay. So within OS X, it's somewhat hidden.
We did a really good job, I guess, of hiding it from you.
Part of our certification of OS X, and this goes back
to the 10.3 days, is related so a world wide standard
for certification of independently
validating products on the common side.
Or referred to as Common Criteria.
Associated with that is when we
provided the auditing services.
And if you go to any of the Apple Web sites and you do a
search on Common Criteria you will see several references,
and one of them's kind of the portal
to all of the related documents.
And here I talk about the CC tools,
or the Common Criteria tools.
That's really the auditing, the additional
auditing services that give you that ability
of modifying the auditable events, changes what it is you
want to know about that's happened on this environment.
And the ability to actually look at the
physical logs themselves, physical audit logs.
And CC tools, they're available
out there for the PowerPC systems.
And when we shifted from PowerPC over to Intel,
remember the certification there was
on 10.3.6, we've shifted to Intel.
So if you are in an environment and you
need to use auditing tools on Intel,
that might be some of you that talked to me afterwards.
We can help you out on that side.
But the audit log viewer is a GUI
version to allow you to view the logs
and of course the tools give you the
actual ability at the command line
to display the audit records, display
the whole audit log file itself.
Or even to reduce them.
To physically only look at certain events.
Maybe you want to see how many times somebody
has failed to authenticate at log in.
Failed to access a particular service, or
who has attempted to gain access to an object
or a file that they did not have the authorization for.
All these kinds of events, these are auditable events.
Not kind of a system log.
But your auditable events.
And this final one, many folks have the need within their
organization or it's become their policy that in addition
to doing all this work, they have to be sure
that the people using that machine are notified,
that if they use that machine they're being monitored.
What transpires if they do nefarious things to that machine.
So notifications, even though it seems
somewhat of a standard configuration change,
it really is one of the key changes that
you can and should do, related to security.
Because many times there have been
event last where folks have attempted
to protect systems, people have compromised them.
And ironically due to the fact that it's not specifically
notified to that user, even though they're attacking,
specifically notified that this is a government or
corporately owned machine, an all the legalese there.
That that gets into issues on the legal side
as to whether they were properly notified.
You don't want to get into that situation.
And on the notifications, many of you have probably been
doing modifications to the log in window P-list, right?
Yes? No? Nobody?
Am I talking to the right people?
Many of you have been doing the log in window P-list.
You've been modifying the little nib file and changing it.
And sometimes it looks good, sometimes it doesn't.
That's the typical method you've been using over the years.
There's actually some good -- a good resource, and many
of us have been chatting about this before and that is --
and I'm trying to remember when it was actually
shipped on one of the DVDs -- developer DVDs.
But some of you should be familiar with off plug-ins.
Right? When you go to authenticate, you know,
like, say when you did the log in window.
The off plug-ins is what is enforcing how that is
displayed, and what are the mechanisms behind that.
And one of the off plug-ins that was even on the developer
DVD a while back was referred to as a banner sample
This is -- was already out there in your hands.
So you might not have known it.
This really is a perfect way that you can create your
own corporate or organizational banner, the notification,
that you can push out to all those machines.
It's an off plug-in, right?
You dump it into the directory for the off plug-ins
and all you do is add that to the first line
of the authentication mechanisms
in system dot log in dot console.
If you just want this to be in the log in window.
There's already a sample there and
it shows you what you can do with it.
Set it up, put it out to your machines.
The key here is that you no longer are modifying
the operating system to do this notification.
Again, trying to help you out with definitely
meeting the legal needs to this side as well.
Of course you're going to do Xcode off
plug-in, you're going to hit the Terminal.
So hopefully at least what I've walked you through gives yu
a little bit better idea on what steps that every single --
I truly believe every single one in this room should
be able to do in mitigating the risks on their machines
in whatever environment, he ever kind of attack environment
you are in, either now or later, those incremental steps.
Of course we do a great job of a default configuration.
But everybody's environment changes.
Everybody's system changes.
You have different apps, different tools that you use.
So you start protected, you maintain that
good protection throughout, doing the updates,
being vigilant on open source projects
that you've added as well.
Making sure that you know for sure what's on your system.
Baseline. And then kind of that notification in the end.
So for my part of this piece, you
should take this as a take away
that you should feel confident you don't need
your IT staff to tell you how to do this.
You should be able to walk out and ensure
that your system is better fortified
So I will welcome Kimberly Cummings from NSA,
but we do a lot of collaboration on
various approaches, various tasks.
And one of those pieces of collaboration was on
providing the security guides for all of you,
and helping you in somewhat of an exhaustive way walk
through the services, walk through of the steps of how
to take each one of these areas of your system and better
enhance the protection in various attack environments of the
so at this point, I will turn it over to Kim.
>> Thanks Sean.
( Applause )
>> I'm looking out here and I thought
nobody was interested in security, Sean?
I thought I was going be talking to ten people!
Maybe I should make you do my slides.
Well, okay.
As Sean said I am Kim Cummings, I work for the System
and Network Analysis Center at National Security Agency.
And I am going to talk to you today a little bit about --
well, what I want to start out talking to you about
is just a little background about the security guides
and how we got where we are today with those.
And then I am going to talk to you a little
bit about kind of our -- perspective.
Our psychology on security.
And give you an idea of how you should kind of think
about security to look at your systems and your security
and really how you should think about it to
secure your systems and look at your systems
to make sure you know what you're doing with your security.
So first of all, with the configuration guides, one of the
functions of the Mac center over the last several years is
to develop security configuration guidance
for computer operating systems, hardware,
and applications for the defense community.
Before we were writing security guidance we had
begun noticing that when customer requests came in,
most of them had the same questions over and over again.
And most of them were making the same
configuration mistakes in their systems and networks.
At the same time, we realized that as a result of
the analysis we do, we frequently had questions
about how the system should be configured.
But we didn't have any practical way of
getting that information out to our customers,
and this ended up resulting in
our first configuration guides.
So when we first began this process,
the guidance was all researched,
developed, and maintained by NSA within our center.
We began with a single product, and because
of the success of the guidance for that,
the request for our services for other products came in.
Eventually, with trying to develop new guides
as new requests came in and maintain guides
that we had already developed, and develop
new versions of the guides we already had,
we realized this job was just overwhelming.
And we also realized that vendors themselves could do a
much more efficient job of keeping the guides current.
The only difficulty was making sure the level
of security in the guides was at the level
that we considered to be sufficient for our customers.
So we started approaching some of these vendors to
develop relationships with them for working on the guides.
NSA asked that these vendors work with us
to develop the next versions of the guides,
and we agreed to assist them as much as possible.
And with -- we had the vendor ultimately
develop -- publish the guides.
This ended up with having NSA vendor collaborations.
We would have NSA remain involved by providing reviews,
comments, suggestions, and we do all this in order to ensure
that our guidance -- or that the guidance they
provided was secure enough to be used by our customers,
but that the vendors would be the runs providing it.
Any place where the NSA and the vendors couldn't reach
a consensus on what was going to go in the guide,
the vendor could publish what they wanted, and then
NSA could then put out an addendum out on our site
so that any differences -- we could tell
our customers what we wanted them to do.
All of these guides can be found out on the NSA
dot gov site under the Information Security page.
We have a number of different guides out
there, including guides for Panther and Tiger.
And the Tiger guides are the ones developed by Apple.
And NSA has not put out any addendums for them
We were able to come to agreement on everything.
( Applause )
okay. Now I'm going to talk a little bit kind
of about your philosophy for securing a system.
First of all, kind of -- just the major factors of a
secure system, which as you can see, user education,
system monitoring, system patching,
and system configuration.
And of course what we're talking
about is system configuration.
The others are all important, but that's really the largest
factor in making and keep a system and a network secure.
There we go.
System configuration not only plays a
huge role in keeping systems secure,
but it's really difficult, because
the system's always changing.
Someone always has a new requirement for the system,
a new machine to add to the network,
something breaks and has to be replaced.
Software up dates come in, users want new
software, or they just want different software,
or access to something that they don't have access to.
The systems need patched.
Am I forgetting anything?
Am I forgetting a lot of things?
And none of that even addresses
vulnerabilities in the system.
We all know holes are found all the time.
And that's part of the reason that patches are needed.
But these holes don't suddenly appear.
They were there long before they were ever found,
and an attacker could have been using
them before they were publicly disclosed.
And the hardest part about all of this is
that those of us protecting the systems have
to worry about blocking every single hole.
Because we don't know which one
is the one that will be used.
And of course, the attacker only has to find one of them.
So first I'm going to give you some
examples of some poor security.
And first of all Sean talked about
having multilayer security.
Poor security is having single layer security.
You rely on just your passwords, you rely
on just a firewall, something like that.
By providing only a single layer of security you give only
a single point for an attacker to break into your system.
Layered security, having a firewall, requiring
passwords, bio metrics, smart cards or all three,
configuring systems in network securely,
removing any services not needed on the network
and other such cautions provide multiple
blocks against an attacker's efforts.
It's unlikely that one layer will be completely impervious,
but by overlapping multiple layers it becomes less likely
that an attacker will find its way
through all the layers of security.
Then there's poor system hygiene.
If you don't delete old, unused, and
outdated software, services, and users.
When the software services or users
that are no longer being used remain
on the system, they become targets for attackers.
Old software and services are no longer being patched
and they may have vulnerabilities that can be exploited
by an attacker to elevate privileges on the system.
An unused user account is also a target for an attacker.
It's an account that can be used by an attacker with
which his intrusion is less likely to be noticed
as Sean talked about, not keeping good separation
of administrator and regular user accounts.
I know we talked about this a little, but I
am going to pound on it just a little more.
I saw that quite a few of you do use
just your administrator account, right?
Uh huh. I've been guilty of that on my home system.
I was until recently.
And when -- actually in the process of doing the
guides I realized that that really wasn't a good idea.
Because you know, you're sitting there, and
you're using your administrator account,
and then you decide, oh I need to go look something up.
And you use the Web browser.
And tell me, where are the most -- most
recent vulnerabilities in the system found?
Yeah. Well, Windows.
Okay, okay.
But in -- when you see vulnerabilities come
out under OS X, where are they usually located?
Web browsers.
You go look at something and you're an
administrator, and you're using your Web browser.
And that's actually for any of the systems.
A lot of the vulnerabilities are up in the Web browsers.
You -- and that's just one reason
not to be an administrator.
You forget that you're an administrator and you accidentally
go do something and erase something that you shouldn't have.
There's just so many reasons not to do it.
I can't stress that enough.
It's one of the biggest things you shouldn't be doing.
Another thing, not limiting your remote access.
Often those configuring a system
will assume that setting up some form
of authentication such as SSH for remote access is enough.
But opening any remote access to a
system is an invitation to attackers.
To help provide layered security that
access should always be further limited.
That can be done through the firewall.
Using the example of SSH, it can also be done by
configuring SSH to limit which users can use SSH.
And disabling root SSH log ins.
And then passwords.
I know Sean talked about that some too.
But -- I'm going to talk about that a little bit.
Let's face it.
Passwords are a problem.
Users hate them, attackers break them.
Administrators hate them because users forget them.
What do we do?
Smart cards are out there.
Bio metrics are out there.
Some of them work and some of them don't.
There's a lot of different manufacturers and some
places -- some companies have trouble moving over.
A lot of places still seem to be stuck with passwords.
A lot of places are just stuck for them for now.
As long as we have to deal with them, we have
to have a policy to deal with them securely.
The mistakes some make are not
putting policies on passwords at all.
Or not putting strong enough policies.
No minimum length, no password aging, no password history --
no requirement for special characters or
numbers in the password -- things like that.
Make sure you put some policies on
your passwords that make them strong.
You want users to be able to remember
them so they're not writing them down.
But you've still got to make is so that they
can't put dog for their password either.
You know? So you need to do a few things like that too.
Let's talk a little bit about what an attacker can do.
This is just a very short list.
But it gives you a few examples.
First one.
Steal cycles.
This one, okay, it can cost businesses
money because it slows down the systems.
But if that's all an attacker does
to you, you've gotten really lucky.
Crashing the system.
That's what people tend to worry about the most.
Virus coming in and attacking the system and
wiping it, and causes everything to be lost.
Makes the system unusable.
An attacker coming in and trashing the system.
Yeah, this can cause a lot of damage and cost a lot.
But it can actually be a lot less
damaging than the next two on the list.
Number three.
Stealing data.
An attacker can come in and read what's on your system.
And quote unquote, steal the data.
You might not even know what on the system he's accessed.
But if you know an attacker's been there, you can
probably assume that every single thing on the system,
or at least everything on the system
that wasn't encrypted was compromised.
So if you have any company secrets, the
attacker now knows them if it wasn't encrypted.
Next is stealing identity.
An attacker might infiltrate a system
to use it to get into other systems
that give access to the system being compromised.
Once a system has been compromised, any trust
relationships that system had have also been compromised.
An attacker will bounce through any number of systems
to get to the system in which he's really interested.
So he might not be breaking into
your system to get to your system.
He might be breaking into your system to
get to another system five systems over.
Might be just bouncing through to get
to the system that's really important.
Or he might be bouncing through
five systems to get to yours.
And finally, he could be coming
in hide time bombs or back doors.
There might not be any indication that anything
on your system has been compromised at all.
It might appear that he didn't do everything, and you
might not even be sure anybody has even been there.
An attacker can hide code on a machine that will execute
at a later time to give him access, ship him data,
destroy the machine, or just cause annoying problems.
He might also make changes somewhere in the system
that will either give him an account he can access
or open up a known vulnerability
in the system he can later exploit.
Okay. Now, I'm going to move on a
little bit to guide development.
What goes into developing a security configuration guide?
Well, the amount of data that we
consider for this can be overwhelming.
The list here's kind of long.
And these are just general overall categories.
As we start breaking out each area and we're working on --
when we're working on a specific
product the list keeps growing.
Okay. So some general principals about your --
these are just general principals you need to think
about when you're using a guide and when you're trying
to figure out how you want to secure your system.
The first principal you need to think
about is separation of function.
You really want to try and put
different functions on different servers.
It's especially important to have a
separate firewall providing an in between --
you know, have a separate firewall between
outside networks and your internal network.
E-mail and Web servers should be on separate
machines from any other servers whenever possible.
The user database should reside on
its own server whenever possible.
Having these services reside separately means that
if someone should compromise one weaker service
he won't necessarily be able to
compromise your entire network.
Having good separation between the services by
putting them on separate servers and having good,
strong authentication required between the
services adds yet another layer of security.
Separation of rights.
Having separate Admin and user accounts.
Just pounding on it a little bit again, I know.
Encrypting wherever possible, even locally.
Encryption provides yet another layer of security,
and no remote log in should ever be
done without some sort of encryption.
And then minimize -- as Sean had talked about,
minimizing services, especially network services.
Any services that are not absolutely
needed should be stopped on the system.
That's also true of any unused code in the system.
And this one's more for developers.
If you're developing code and you have code
that turns out you're not using, you know,
you've changed the code, you've got unused code.
Don't just leave it in there.
Take it out.
Clean up your code.
It helps. Another case, even though
it's not exactly a service, is IPV-6.
IPV-6 is currently started automatically in the system.
But a lot of people have not switched
over to IPV-6 addresses yet.
And if you haven't, you should
disable IPV-6 on your systems.
Because any unused services or code in a system that
are active are potential windows for an attacker.
Also, kernel extensions.
You should remove unnecessary or unwanted kernel extensions.
They can provide an attacker a window, and this can also
be a good place to remove capabilities from the system.
Such as the ability to use USB flash drives.
If you have a requirement in your organization
that people not be able to have flash drives,
that's a place where you can remove that capability.
The thing you need to remember is that kernel extensions
might be restored any time of the system is updated.
So if you have used that capability --
that way to remove these capabilities,
then any time you do a system update you need
to also remove those kernel extensions again.
Kind of a corollary to this is in the
guide we use this way to remove things
like Bluetooth and Airport and things like that.
If -- any of those things that -- if
that's not sufficient enough for you,
you might need to remove them in
the hardware, or the microphone.
If having a microphone in your system is a security risk
in your area, you might have to remove it in the hardware.
You might have to find a service provider that
there are service providers out there
that have specialized in doing that.
And you might have to go and have
that hardware removed or become a --
an Apple authorized technician
and actually remove the hardware.
There are a number of ways you can do these things.
Those are for extremely secure areas, of course.
Most people don't have to go that far.
But those are possibilities too.
Another thing with these guides is
when we create them, we always --
we tend to do them with the idea of making
them as locked down security-wise as possible
and still have the system be useable
for some guides, as they've evolved,
they developed into providing different
levels of security in them.
Generally, however, our philosophy is that if we
provide the most locked down mode possible in the guide,
the users of the guide can determine
what risks they're willing to live with
and then loosen up the configuration from there.
So because we do try to make the
system as locked down as possible,
we also try to explain the implications of each setting.
What it will break if you do set it, what risks
you'll -- you'll take -- take if you don't set it.
For the most basic settings that should
always be used, we don't always do this.
But for services where some sites may want to use
them and some may not or for other such settings,
this allows the users of the guides to determine
whether or not the risk of using a feature is worth it.
And we also try to put in step by step
instructions for everything to make sure how sure --
how all the configurations are done is completely clear
to everyone, no matter what the experience of the user is.
Okay. And then I just have a few best practices for you.
And this is kind of an idea about how to use the guide.
And this sounds simple, but it isn't always.
And this is a list -- you know, determine what you have.
What level of security you want.
What level of services you need.
And then you take the guide and then you
customize it to fit your particular circumstances.
First of all, your current architecture
may be completely wrong.
So weir (Phonetic) management allow you to
tear it completely down and start from scratch.
I'm guessing in most cases no.
If not, what will you be able to do?
You know, Sean recommended completely
reloading your machine.
Completely reloading a machine may be somewhat realistic.
But completely tearing down your whole network and
redesigning from scratch what your entire network is going
to look like probably isn't it a lot of cases.
So you're going to have to try and
figure out what you can do realistically
without upsetting the network too much
and upsetting your bosses too much.
So you have to figure out what your current architecture is.
What you have, and how you're going to be
able to fit it into your security plan.
Best, of course, is always to reload and start from zero.
Scratch the whole network and start from scratch.
But as I said, that's frequently not very realistic.
You also need to figure out what your risk is, what the
threat is, and what you're trying to protect against.
Are you a non-profit with very little risk?
If so, you might not be as worried
about shutting down services, then.
If your company is a research and development company that
may have competitors looking to steal company secrets,
you're going to want to protect against outside threats,
and you will have some concern about inside threats as well.
If the projects are short term projects that go to market
quickly, you wouldn't have as much concern as the firm
that has long term projects that
stretch out over many years.
Since the security breech would not hit you as
hard as it would a long term research company.
Financial institutions, generally, need
to protect their systems very heavily.
And of course the level of services you have
is effected by the level of security you need.
The higher your level of security, the fewer
services you can, or at least should have.
The thing to remember is that every service you allow,
every privilege you open up, every trust you allow,
makes it easier for someone to break into your system.
And once you have a grasp of the different factors
of your system, your network or your enterprise,
then you can use the guide to come up with your
own customized security configuration guide.
And finally, don't forget.
User policies and administrator policy.
Policies for how machines will be kept
up-to-date, overall security policies,
and policies for how security incidents will
be handled, policies for reviewing the logs,
you're going to need policies for
how to handle all of your security.
That needs to be put into place.
User education.
Even though people have gotten
a lot more security conscious,
most users still don't know a lot about security basics.
It might be worthwhile to give users some security pointers,
or at least point them to some
sort of security primer for users.
And securing a system or network is never a one-time effort.
Keeping all of the patches updated, keeping all of the
security matched up with any changes in the systems
and any time works, responding to any attacks to the
systems, or responding to newly found vulnerabilities
and other such changes requiring
security updates means that the work
to keep your systems and network secure is never done.
And with that, I'm going hand it back over to Sean.
( Applause )
>> Thank you.
Okay. As we're kind of winding down, we
want to be sure that all of you are aware --
we've been throwing a lot of stuff at you.
We've been trying to keep it high level so you can
kind of take away and take some action right away.
But there's a lot of resources
that you can go to now and ongoing.
First of all, we both mentioned the
guides that we jointly collaborated on.
The 10.3 guides were formerly developed by NSA
and we worked closely to contribute to that.
The 10.4 guides is when we as a
vendor took that upon ourselves.
We developed those guides with the feed back and
the validation from the NSA guide -- from NSA --
so whether you want to get these from our site,
from the server documentation location,
or from the NSA dot gov SNAC sites.
It's the same document, 10.4 mirrored on both places.
There is additional security services,
resources I wanted you all to be aware of.
Just kind of the security overview at Apple, Apple
security overview at Apple dot com slash security.
Product security, which covers many things.
Kind of the action for notices, the
action for providing software update.
So the Apple security updates post each one,
correspond changes that have been done or provided.
And the corresponding CDEs in those up dates.
And all of you, or all of the IT folks
actually implementing and deploying a lot
of these systems should definitely be leveraging Apple's
security training and certification process in this as well.
And additional external resource at NIST,
National Institute of Standard Technology,
is another form of guidance on product security checklists.
There you will find references to Mac OS X, and all of
these are really in the process of merging together.
So in years to come, whether it be in combining all of them
with NSA and NIST and DISSA and Apple.
All of these will be merging into
a single document in the future.
But until now, you have additional resources.
So with that said, if you are enterprise customers,
typically you would be dealing directly with me.
If you're developers, deal directly within your
-- on the developer relations side of the house.
And those of you that need to get into some auditing
on the Intel side, you can talk to me off line.
Since we're very short on time, we aren't
going to be able to do Q and A here.
But hopefully we gave you the ability of truly
understanding the purpose of system hardening,
better understanding what you can do right now,
what you can do ongoing in protecting yourself
in the changing environments that your
systems are in with those top ten steps.
And we've given you some excellent
resources to provide to ongoing guidance.